# IIITDMJ_Smoke-Dataset

The dataset is available in google drive link: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1FgczfnAUZSY0TVJAEGCHOsK6RRB11OXv

IIITDMJ Smoke dataset of satellite images is collected from MODIS satellite to build the proposed model and to help the research community working in the field. The IIITDMJ Smoke dataset contains 23, 644 images of wildfire smoke and other images. The images are obtained from diverse geographical locations. These include images from Canada, Australia, Russia, and the United States of America (USA). Images from the USA are from southern states like Washington, Idaho, San Francisco, California, Helena, Georgia, South Carolina, Florida, and Alabama. The vegetation type in California is covered with grasslands and woodlands. From Australia, the states of Victoria, New South Wales, and Queensland are covered.

During the collection of the IIITDMJ Smoke dataset, the focus was on gathering data of 21st century wildfires. The data was collected based on the occurrence of some major wildfire occurrences such as Russian wildfires in the years 2003, and 2015, Australian bushfires between the years 2002-2003, 2006-2007, 2011-2012, and 2019-2020, Canada wildfires in 2014 and 2017, California fire in 2020, and Bolivia fire in 2010. The vast areas of Amazon rainforests frequently burn due to wildfire. Thus we have also covered wildfires that occurred in Brazil, Bolivia, Paraguay, and Peru in the year 2019. The use of the MODIS satellite imagery for data collection was based on its spatial properties, making it well-suited for various Earth observation applications.
